---
We point out that the share of the economy devoted to AI investment is nearly a third greater than the share of the economy devoted to internet related investments back during the dotcom bubble. So, we think there are enough analogies there to make the call.

Bernstein told CNBC’S “Squawk Box” last week that surging asset prices and extreme valuations indicate that an AI bubble is the “likely outcome.”

He said that bubbles are defined by a vast gap between investment levels and the actual “credible expectations” for future profits.

Bernstein pointed to OpenAI, which has already made around $1 trillion in AI deals, including a $500 billion data center buildout project, despite being set to generate only $13 billion in revenue.

“You’ve got to account for future earnings,” Bernstein said. “But to us and many others, that divergence between credibly, plausible, expected future earnings and this level of investment certainly looks bubbly.”

Despite the Magnificent Seven’s spending spree on AI, Bernstein said that their profits are mostly coming from other areas like advertisements and cloud services.

“If you actually look at the AI investments, they tend to be a small share of [the profits],” Bernstein said. “So that actually contributes to the bubble hypothesis.”
---

---
I think some of the investments that we’ve seen so far is not on AI, it’s more on cloud and the power of cloud. So I don’t believe this is a bubble, but I believe this is capital that in most cases is going to be well spent.

Fink said on CNBC’s “Squawk on the Street” last week that there is definitely a “skyrocketing amount of capital” being funneled into AI, which he believes is not a sign of a bubble but rather a necessary investment for the U.S. to remain a global leader in AI technology.

“Investing in AI does not just mean investing in GPUs and chips, it means investing in HVAC and IT, investing in power grids and power supplies,” Fink said.

The BlackRock CEO said that these massive stakes will ultimately lead to some failures, but he is confident that major hyperscalers like Meta
, Microsoft
, and Alphabet
 are in a “really good position” to be winners.

“That is capitalism,” Fink said. “We’re going to have some big winners and we’re going to have some big losers ... but if you have a diversified portfolio, you’re going to be fine.”
---
