# KENDRICK LAMAR — ‘NOT LIKE US’

Well, that was some weekend. Before I start this review, I think some context is necessary. Inbetween the time that I wrote the review for Kendrick Lamar’s ‘Euphoria’ and it being posted, there was a further THREE disses dropped in that time frame of Thursday to Saturday, with the further fourth diss in question, ‘Not Like Us’, being dropped in the early hours of Sunday.

And that all leads us to this. Sides have been taken, YouTube music reacters have lost hours of sleep waiting for these two to drop, DJ Akademiks’ jaw is probably still on the floor and Drake has lost this battle, end of. Throw in the towel, Aubrey, it’s game over now. It doesn’t take a genius to know that Kendrick has played this feud absolutely perfectly, annihilated Drake musically, lyrically and even comercially, as well as timing his releases so well that he even predicted what Drake was going to say on his penultimate response, ‘Family Matters’.

Before we get on to ‘Not Like Us’, we need to go through how we got here and trust me, there’s a lot to get into. Firstly, on Friday the 3rd of May, Kendrick did the unthinkable and went back to back, with the release of ‘6:16 in LA’, a clear jab at Drake’s signature X time in X place tracks. It’s a slow build compared to ‘Euphoria’, as the book really seems to open up when Kendrick states, “Yeah, somebody’s lying I can see the vibes on Ak” mentioning how even DJ Akademics, one of Drake’s biggest ride or die fans, even seems to be worried.

This is followed by the bomb of a line where Kendrick Lamar eludes to having a mole within Drake’s OVO camp, most likely to feed him insider information, and then claiming a lot of his team want to see him lose, are fed up with up and are only there because he’s got them on a salary. One thing this did do for Drake, however, was leave the door wide open for him to strike back.

‘Family Matters’ would be the next instalment in this war and Drake certainly hit the heights he needed to. It was fierce, to the point and overall stood as a solid song, which now come far and few between nowadays for the Canadian superstar. Multiple beat switches, as well as some of his best flows in years and some decent jabs at Kendrick, actually made it hold up to what was being dropped on the opposition side, heck, he destroyed a likeness of the van from ‘good kidd, m.A.A.d city’ album cover in the video. However, less than an hour after this all released and people thought Drake took the lead, we would see Kendrick release the most diabolical diss in the history of music itself.

‘Meet The Grahams’ is harrowing, haunting and down-right disturbing, but it’s something you could only see one of the greatest lyricists in rap history doing when his back may be against the wall. Addressing this man’s entire family, including a daughter that may or may not exist, bringing out strong claims of manipulation, exploitation, strange interactions with teenagers and Kendrick just straight up saying Drake should die. It really got that deep. It’s a song that needs to be digested after a first listen; just stare into the nearest wall for the next five minutes and listen to what this man has just uttered, all over this absolutely evil beat courtesy of legendary producer, The Alchemist.

This now all brings us to ‘Not Like Us’, where it finally seems that the beef hasn’t been squashed, but finished. As I said, this is his victory lap, jigging around on a west coast style beat with the help of DJ Mustard. He completely doubled down on the pedophile claims with a real tagline bar, “Certified Lover Boy? Certified pedophile”, really being a kicker for the whole track. It’s also not only a diss track, though, it’s also a certified hit single. At the time of writing, ‘Not Like Us’ is likely to debut at number one, with only five days worth of stream tracking, as well as breaking the record for the most streams for a hip-hop song in one day, before breaking the same record again just a day later. It’s got to the point where even Drake’s biggest selling point, his commercialism, has been trumped by K Dot.

At this point we knew Drake would come back with a rebuttle, but instead of going out with a fight, he went out with a whimper. ‘The Heart Part Six’ is a pathetic attempt at a comeback and all but seals his fate. To keep it brief, Drake is in full damage limitation mode, denying everything Kendrick has said and not really saying much of his own. The only really substance of the track was a statement made by Drake, saying the only reason Kendrick is calling him a predator, is due to him being sexually assaulted at a young age and admitting to that on ‘Mother I Sober’. Now this line is already just a terrible point to hone in on as it is, but it’s made even more abhorrent by the fact that it is completely false, with the lines on ‘Mother I Sober’ reading, “Family ties, they accused my cousin, ‘Did he touch you, Kendrick’. Never lied but no one believed me when I said, ‘He didn’t’”. 

Just like that, the book is surely closed on one of the most hate filled and entertaining rap beefs ever to grace the game. It’s almost mad to think that ‘Not Like Us’ will be one of the anthems of the summer, with the image of beaches and pool parties filled with people jiving to Drake’s downfall, the same man who has soundtracked many summers in his time. As mentioned prior, Kendrick played this whole game near perfectly, but he had to. Kendrick was dissing because he wanted to; Drake was dissing because he had to, but despite that, he still got wiped and did himself no favours with his final release, whereas Kendrick made his final knockout blow one his most hype and upbeat songs he’s ever came out with. Hope we’re all ready for the Lil Tecca vs Danny Brown beef in two weeks time, folks.



